in the last hour President Biden has
been speaking at the end of that visit
to Israel and he warned Israel to learn
from America's mistakes after 9/11 and
not to act in
Rage Justice must be
done but I caution this while you feel
that rage don't be consumed by it after
9/11 we were enraged in the United
States while we sought Justice and got
Justice we also made mistakes
well as well as those passages aimed and
directed at Israel and of course he
referenced those attacks of 11 days ago
he said it was the worst loss of life
since the Holocaust he then went on to
speak about the Palestinians inside Gaza
and he said the Palestinians were
suffering greatly because of the
fighting we mourn the loss of innocent
Palestinian lives like the entire world
I was outraged and saddened by the
enormous loss of life yesterday in the
hospital in Gaza
based on the information we've seen to
date it appears as a result of an aant
rocket fired by a terrorist group in
Gaza the United States unequivocally
stands for the protection of civilian
life during conflict and I grieve I
truly grieve for the families who were
killed or wounded by this tragedy that
was Joe Biden in the last 60 minutes so
what are we able to actually establish
with any certainty about the attack on
the hospital will our diplomatic
correspondent car line Hy has been
working working with our colleagues at
BBC
verify ever since the explosion happened
last night at around 700 p.m. local time
the BBC verified team has been analyzing
all the images and video that have
emerged you can see where the hospital
is located within Gaza City and this
footage shows what appears to be the
courtyard car park of the hospital in
Flames we've been able to establish that
that's what it is from the shape of the
buildings now the AL jazer television
station was broadcasting live from Gaza
at the time you can see a series of
bright lights in the air we don't know
exactly what these are the Israeli Army
says there was a failed rocket launch by
the Palestinian militant group Islamic
Jihad then you can see a Flash and
that's followed shortly afterwards by a
big
Fireball our verification teams have
looked at these images and can tell from
the roofs and from other Skyline details
illuminated by the Flames that it was in
the main Courtyard of the
hospital next they've been looking at
daylight images taken this morning here
you can see quite a lot of fire damage
to the cars but most of the buildings
surrounding it are still mostly intact
and standing and there's actually a
relatively small crater now we've shown
these images to a number of weapons
experts and while they couldn't come to
a firm conclusion several of them told
us that if the explosion had been caused
by the type of bomb normally used by
Israeli forces the crater would have
been bigger and there would have been
more damage to the
buildings one way of trying to establish
what hit this hospital is by studying
bomb or missile fragments at the scene
but our team on the ground and the team
here haven't seen any now look at this
image we found from last night of two
men searching through the crater we
showed you earlier the logo on their
vest is from the Palestinian police from
the explosive Ordinance Department we
don't know what if anything they
recovered the Islamic Jihad movement put
out a statement today saying the
explosion was caused by Israeli aerial
bombing and claiming that they have the
remnants of the explosive head but they
haven't yet provided any evidence of
this what's not in dispute is that there
were a very large number of casualties
according to Palestinian officials
mostly we think of people who've been
Sheltering in the hospital from Israeli
air strikes sleeping on the grass here
to establish the exact truth of what
caused them you'd need an independent
investigation but that's not going to
happen in what is an active war zone